----
title: Babywearing for Dads
----

So, why would a father want to wear their baby? Sometimes we hear that fathers don't want to wear their babies at all! They think it is something for women, and that it is cumbersome and not very useful at all. Or maybe that it is something for poor people or hippies. Well, we would venture that babywearing is especially important for dads. For sometimes a new father finds it hard to bond with his new baby. It comes to him all of a sudden: he is a father now. But, how do you do that? Actually, what do you do with a newborn? Maybe his wife/partner asks him to please take care of the baby as well, so that she has some time for herself. But he finds himself not knowing what to do with the crying bundle that just wants to be held in arms all day long. Well, there is the sling!

But, not only does it give him a tool to take care of this bundle, it also gives him a tool to bond with his baby. Because bonding happens easier when we hold the baby close to us, as we ( and the baby) make oxytocin, a hormone that makes us feel very happy and cuddly. And, while he is swaying across the room with his newborn in the sling close by, he maybe feels a little bit better about himself as a parent, as his soothing breathing makes his newborn fall asleep, and he finds he has his hands free to read a book or ( revolution! ) maybe games a bit ( with the sound off!)

As baby grows he might find that he prefers the sling because the stroller is a cumbersome and uncomfortable thing all together ( or maybe he loves it, to each his own). He might find that he loves exploring the world with his toddler on his back helping him find the gems in the mundane suburbans. Having your child so near, is an eye opener. You are much closer to them, physically but also emotionally. And, of course, you don't have to worry nearly as much about whether they are getting too cold or lonely in the pushchair in the front.

All across the world, in most cultures, in most times, we see babies being worn. And not only by women! In the coal mines, in the middle of that miserable existence, men wore their babies. To keep them safer than at home, and maybe, maybe, because they wanted to have them with them?  Like those men, there are more examples. Look it up, if you like. Because, there is no more manly thing than wearing your baby to make him/her fall asleep, or wearing your toddler to go and explore the world. And we know it, because we do so!
